Refactor workflow to support PERs and ARs (#1235)
php-fig/fig-standards: bylaws/009-per-workflow.md

# PER Workflow

> A PHP Evolving Recommendation (PER) is a formal definition of best practices, utilities, reference implementations, and similar tools.  They may evolve over time as the PHP ecosystem develops.  

Reviewer: I like the wording here, and I think it might be helpful to expand on what "ecosystem develops" means; new features added to the language, deprecations, etc. Maybe something as simple as:

> as the PHP ecosystem develops due to new PHP features and deprecations.

Author: Or just "as the PHP language and ecosystem develop"?

Reviewer: I like that.

Interested parties may discuss a possible proposal, including possible implementations, by whatever means they feel is appropriate. That includes informal discussion on official FIG discussion mediums of whether or not the idea has merit and is within the scope of the PHP FIG's goals.

Once those parties have determined to move forward, they must form a Working Group. A Working Group consists of, at minimum:

* One Editor
* One Core Committee member who will act as Sponsor
* At least three other individuals. These may include Project Representatives, Secretaries or Core Committee members as well as members of the general community.

The proposal is not required to be fully developed at this point, although that is permitted. At minimum, it must include a statement of the problem to be solved and basic information on the general approach to be taken. Further revision and expansion is expected during the Draft Phase.

The Sponsor may then call for an Entrance Vote of the Core Committee to enquire whether the Core Committee is generally interested in maintaining a PER for the proposed subject, even if they disagree with the details of the proposal.

> If the vote passes, the proposal officially enters Draft stage. The proposal is given a unique descriptive name (such as "CodingStandards", "CacheUtil", etc.).

Reviewer 2: Naming convention: is there a reason for the descriptive names to be in camel case?
I thought that these names were meant for humans, allowing spaces to be used (ex `Coding Standards`). Defining the package name, kebab-case convention should be used.

Author: Not in particular, beyond knee-jerk preference for strings that can be identifiers.  In this case it probably is better to let it be longer.

Unless a proposal is moved to Draft stage again, it must remain in Review stage for a minimum of four weeks and until two independent viable trial implementations can be demonstrated. The responsibility for finding such trial implementations and presenting them to the Core Committee lies with the Working Group, and especially the Editor and Sponsor. As not all specifications are PHP interfaces where the definition of "implementation" is self-evident, the Sponsor should use good faith judgement to determine when that is the case. Any member of the Core Committee may object to a given trial implementation as irrelevant or insufficient with due cause.

Once four weeks have passed and two viable trial implementations can be demonstrated, the Sponsor may call an Acceptance Vote. If the Acceptance Vote fails, the specification may remain in Review.

## Accepted

> If the Acceptance Vote passes, then the proposal officially becomes an accepted PER.  It is considered the 1.0.0 release of that PER.

Reviewer 3: I would reword "considered" into something more tangible, along the lines of "this is the moment where the editor will effectively tag the 1.0".

## Evolution

Unlike a PSR, a PER is expected to evolve over time.  Once the initial version of a PER is approved, the Working Group remains active but its minimum requirements drop to an Editor and two additional individuals.  By default, the Working Group at time of first approval continues in that role.  The Working Group may continue to develop the PER over time as the context of the recommendation evolves, such as newly released PHP language versions, additional input from third parties, etc.

> For any proposed change to the PER, the Editor must notify the Core Committee via a post to the mailing list of an Intent to Merge a given change.

Author: Mm, possibly.  My concern is that a whole crapload of stuff could be in a given release, and then if the CC objects you have to sort out how to pull out or change selected pieces.

"Ask forgiveness, not permission" makes saying "no" much harder, even in cases where saying no is the right thing to do.  And sometimes, it will be the right thing to do.

> For any proposed change to the PER, the Editor must notify the Core Committee via a post to the mailing list of an Intent to Merge a given change.

Reviewer: Well I would hope that the people most likely to have strong opinions about a project would be part of the Working Group. I am pretty sure that "notify the CC of any change" is going to be overly burdensome.

If no member of the Core Committee objects within seven days, the proposed change is assumed accepted by default.  Any member of the Core Committee may request during that seven-day period that the change be put to a vote.  If any member does so, the change is immediately put to an Acceptance Vote to determine if it is accepted or not.

> The Editor is empowered to declare tagged versions of a PER at any time.  Tagged versions MUST follow Semantic Versioning conventions.  However, any change that would necessitate a new Major release MUST be put to an Acceptance Vote by the Core Committee.

Reviewer: Along with my previous comment, I am not sure that "any time" is a good idea here. Perhaps this should be more defined, per SemVer:

1. Bug fixes MAY be tagged by the Editor at any time.
2. Minor versions MUST be declared to the Core Committee and have a 7 day holding period, during which any Core Committee member MAY call for an Acceptance Vote.
3. Major versions MUST be declared to the Core Committee and MUST be put to an Acceptance Vote.

## Staffing Changes

> The Editor of an approved PER is empowered to add or remove members from the Working Group at any time, with notification to the Core Committee.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Editor of an approved PER is empowered to add or remove members from the Working Group at any time. Any member changes to the Working Group MUST be declared to the Core Committee by a post on the mailing list with a link to a Pull Request that documents the change.
```

Should the Editor of a PER Working Group resign or become inactive, the Core Committee may appoint a new Editor.  Preference will be given to the existing Working Group members at that time.

> ## Abandoned

Reviewer 4: Would an "Accepted" PER be marked as "Abandoned" if it's WG dissolves?  Or would it forever remain "Accepted"?

Author: The PER would remain accepted, I presume. I suppose we probably do want to have a process to officially deprecate and abandon a PER's artifacts.

A PER Working Group can be marked as Abandoned by Secretaries when it is without an Editor for 60 days. After a period of 6 months without significant activity in a Working Group, the Secretaries may also declare a PER Working Group to be Abandoned.

Should in the future a new Editor wish to establish a new Working Group to continue development of the same PER, the candidate may petition the Core Committee to do so by asking for a new Entrance Vote.  Only the Editor and two additional individuals are required at this time.

## PER Working Group Fast-track

A PER Working Group may be established with a single Entrance Vote and only three members (Editor and two others) in the following circumstances:

1. A new Working Group is taking over an Abandoned PER.
2. A new Working Group wishes to use an existing PSR as the initial version of a PER.  In this case, the assumption is that the subject matter is more suited to a PER than a PSR.
3. A new Working Group wishes to take ownership of existing utility libraries already published that do not yet have clear ownership.

> Should a PSR be approved for which its Working Group has already produced one or more utility libraries, the PSR Working Group is automatically converted into a PER Working Group upon approval to cover those libraries, unless the Working Group explicitly states its intent to not do so.  For example, such utility libraries may be better managed by an existing PER for a related topic.

Reviewer: This section is confusing. I understand that the intention is for a PSR working group to be converted to a PER working group after the approval of the PSR, but the wording is rather circuitous.

Author: Yeah, there's a lot of conditionals in this process.  The intent is that, for instance, should PSR-5 ever actually get finished, it would be a PSR that defines parsing rules.  Then after it passes it would mutate into a PER WG to define the tag library.  Or, PSR-18 may have produced a util library, but there's little reason to have a separate PER WG to maintain that when there's already the one left over from PSR-7/15/17 and the PSR-18 people want to just dump the PSR-18 code artifacts on the existing WG to handle (which is probably the best course of action).

If we do a deeper refactor as the list seems to be suggesting I will try to flesh this out further.

Should the Editor of a PER Working Group resign or become inactive, the Core Committee may appoint a new Editor.  Preference will be given to the existing Working Group members at that time.

Should a Working Group become inactive for 

## Deprecated

A Deprecated PSR is one that has been approved, but is no longer considered relevant or recommended. Typically this is due to the PSR being superseded by a new version, but that is not required.

A PSR may be Deprecated explicitly as part of the Acceptance Vote for another PSR. Alternatively, it may be marked Deprecated by a Deprecation Vote.

## Abandoned

A PER Working Group can be marked as Abandoned by Secretaries when it is without an Editor for 60 days. After a period of 6 months without significant activity in a Working Group, the Secretaries may also declare a PER Working Group to be Abandoned.

Should in the future a new Editor wish to establish a new Working Group to continue development of the same PER, the candidate may petition the Core Committee to do so by asking for a new Entrance Vote.  Only the Editor and two additional individuals are required at this time.

> ## PER Working Group Fast-track

Author: I don't like the name for this section.  Please suggest something better.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Expedited PER Working Group
```
